Today's Agenda
---------------
Software Engg - Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC)
---------------
What is a Project/Application?
	It is a process of computerizing a manual process.
			or
	It is a process of automazing a task related to particular entity(any firm/org).

There are generalized steps to develop a project

1.  What is ur project?
		School Management System
2.  What is an existing system and proposed system
		Existing System :-  We have to know the functionality of the firm(school)
				weather it is having any application already or has to develop 
				new application. 
				
				if already having an application
					has to know that app functionality

		Proposed System :-  What newly need to add to the existing application if already app
					exist.

					if no application exist, developing new application as per 
					requriements.
3.  Modules of the project
		Students
			A. Student Registration Process
			B. Student Examinations
			C. Student Fees Collection
			D. Student Games and Sports
			E. Student Examination Results
		Employees
			A. Employees Personal Information
			B. Employees Job Details
			C. Employees Salaries Details
		Library
			A. Books Details
			B. Member Details
			C. Issued Book Details
4.  System Design
	Diagrams
		Flow Charts
		E-R Diagrams
		Data Flow Diagrams
		Unified Modeling Language(UML) Diagrams
	Database Design
	Student_Reg:-  AdmnNo  StudentName FatherName Gender Address Location Phone Email Rollno Class
	Marks  :-   RollNo  StudentName   Exam   Sub1   Sub2  Sub3  Total  Average Results
	Fees   :-   Rollno  TotalFees   PaidFees  Balance   PaidDate
	Books  :-   BookNo  BookName  Author  Price  No_Of_Coiies

5.  Hardware and Software Requirements
	Software Requirements 
		Prog Lang	: Java
		Database	: MySQL
		Operating System: Windows
	Hardware Requirements
		Processor	: I3/I7/...	
		RAM		: 8GB
		HDD		: 500GB
		Graphic Card	: ....
6.  Coding the application
	Now developers will start developing the application 
7.  Testing the application
	Testing Team will start test the application once development is done
8.  Deploy the application
	Implementing the application in client enviornment.
------------------------------
Software Evalution:- 

It is also known as the s/w engg paradigm, it is the process of creating a software product utilising software engg ideas and methods. 


It begins with gathering of requirements. 
		Then Developers develops a prototype of the application and exhibits to the users / clients to get feedback. if client says yes, the actual development will be started. 

Software Development Paradigms 
		It is the process of developing application by using software engg concepts

	It consist of 
			Requirements Gathering
				Collecting information about the project from the client
			Software Design
				Analyze the requirement and preparing project tasks/user stories
			Programming
				Start coding for the project
				Coding
					Development
				Testing
					Test the application
				Deploying/Integration		
					Implementation of the application


Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC): -

	The process of the SDLC is to generate a large system that satisfies customer expectations, performs effectively and efficiently in the current and projected information technology infrastructure and economical to maintain and enhance. 

SDLC Steps 

1.  Planning
	The first duration of a development project is included in s/w dev planning. 
	Analysis and planning, design and development, deployment, production and lunch then 	maintaince are all included in the plan.
2.  Defining
	It defines the logical framework of each module as well as interface used to connect with it.
3.  Designing
	Design decisions depends on te requirements list we created during the defintion.	 	
4.  Building
	The actual Development will be started here. 
5.  Testing
	Application will be tested as per the client requirement.
6.  Deployment
 		The SDLC closes with the phase, which puts the product or application into working. 


To implement these all phases SDLC provides different models

1.  Waterfall Model
2.  V Model
3.  Incremental Model
4.  RAD Model
5.  Iteravive Model
6.  Spiral Model
7.  Agile Model

Waterfall Model :- 

It is also called as Top to Bottom Approach, it is a cascade SDLC model that includes graudal execution of phases. 

This Model is a breakdown of project activities into linear sequential phases. 

This model is used for smaller or mid size projects. 

V - Model :-

It is an expansion of classic waterfall model. 
This model is based on associated test stage for every development stage. 
This is a very strict model, and the next stage is started only after the prvioues phase completed and tested. 

This is also called Validation and Verification Model. 


Incremental Model :- 

this model is a SDLC process that distributes requirments into multiple stand-alone modules during the development cycle. 

Project Divides Into Modules and for each module sdlc process implemented then finally all modules are interconnected as an application. 

RAD Model :- 

RAD - Rapid Application Development

Product
	Generalized Task has been implemented later it has to sold to the required people.  
Project
	Live Implementation

It is a Adaptive Software Development is another term for RAD. 

The incremental prototyping technique to software development is known as RAD. 

Here RAD is a concept that states by gathering need through workshops or focus groups. 
for that needs develop a proto type then demonstrate to the needy people, if they accepts
that proto type, then same proto type will be used to develop complete application then deliver to the client.

Iteravive Model :- 

This model allows the team to go back in time and visit prior changes where the changes were made. 
When the SDLC procedure is completed, the project's final result is renewed. 

This model does not need a full set of requirements before starting a project. 

The process is repetitive, allowing it to make new versions of the product for every cycle. 

Spiral Model :- 

This model is a stage-based SDLC  model that integrates architecture and prototyping. it is a hybrid of the iterative and waterfall models. The main purpose of this model is "Risk Assemenet". 


The proper time to progress to the next stage must be determined. 

The Solution to this problem is to use the pre-determined time frames.

The transition to the next level taks place as planned. 

Even if the earlier stages work is still not completed, the strategy is based on statstical data gathered from past projects. 

Agile Model :- 
	A software development apporach based on 
				Iterative development is referered to as "Agile Process Model".

	It separates projects into smaller iterations/sections and avoids long-term planning. 

	Agile always follows short-term plans. 

	Here Client / Customer Interactions is very important. 

	Customer can view the result of each development section in the Alige and decide if they are 	satisified or not.

	The Scrum Methodology is one of the Agile Model's practical applications. 

	The alternative to the traditional project management are suggested  by the agile process. 

	For Agile process, we have practical implementation  with "JIRA" Software. 

Sprint
Scrum
Scrum Master
Backlog
Spring Backlog
Product Backlog
