Today's Agenda
--------------
Computer Fundamentals
--------------
What is a Computer?
	It is an electronic device which accepts data, process data and gives desired Information.

What is a Data?
		Collection of Raw material, basically which has no meaning for data.
				or		
		Collection of facts and figures is a data.
What is a Process?
		The work which we do using data.
What is a Information?
		The processed data
--------------------
		Data  =>  Process  =>  Information

		Input =>  Proess =>  Output
--------------------
Computer follows/uses 3 Technologies

1. Hardware Technology
		It explains about computer parts and pheripharals.
2. Software Technology
		It explains about compurer programs
3. Liveware Technology
		It explains about human being who works with computer. 

Hardware Technology :- 
		It explains about computer parts and pheripharals


It has been divided into 2 parts

1.  CPU  - Central Processing Unit
2.  Pheripharals 

What is a CPU?
	It is a Central Processing Unit(Processor)

	It is a brain of computer where it allows to perform all types of processing actions. 

	It has again 3 sections
		ALU  :-   Arithematic Logical Unit
				this unit allows to perform all Arithematic and Logical calculations.

		CU   :-   Control Unit
				This unit controls all the operations what the user performing.

		MU   :-   Memory Unit
				This unit allows to store data either temp/permenently.

Memory Unit :-  This unit allows to store data either temp / Permenently. 

This unit again divided into two types
		
		Primary Memory
			This memory allows to store data temp. 
			This is called as Random Access Memory(RAM).
				Whenever we type something using any application, 
				that data directly goes and stores in RAM.
		Secondary Memory
			This memory allows to store data permenently. 
			Once data stored in Secondary Memory, that data can't removed 
			until we removed. 
				
			Again it can be divided into two sections
				ROM(Read Only Memory)
					This memory having some instructions which are meant for 
					starting the computer. 
					BIOS information
					It can't be modified and removed.  		
				Storage Devices
					Hard Disk Drive(HDD)
					SSD
					Pendrives
					External HDD
					CD/DVD

	Note : 	Every Memory Device(Primary/Secondary) have some capacity.
 
Memory / Data Measurements :-
		Computer can't under stand human language, it has it's own language
		called Binary Language. In this language data / information is re-presented
		in the form of 1's and 0's. 

		1's or 0's called as BIT.

		8 bits = 1 byte
		1024  bytes = 1 Kilo Byte
		1024  KB = 1 Mega Byte
		1024  MB = 1 Giga Byte
		1024  GB = 1 Tera Byte
		1024  TB = 1 Peta Byte

Based on these measurements, disk capacity will be decided. 

RAM :-  4GB RAM, 8GB RAM, 16GB RAM, .....
HDD / SSD :-   500GB, 1TB, ....
Pendrives :-   4GB, 16GB, 32GB, 64GB, 128GB, ....

ASCII Values  :-  American Standard Code for Information Interchage. 
		It is a collection of codes(numbers) for every key in keyboard.
		these are having from 0 - 255. 

		A - Z :- 65 - 90
		a - z :- 97 - 122
		0 - 9 :- 48 - 57

		A - 65, B - 66,.....Z - 90

Similarly ANSI  values -  American National Standard Institute

2. Pheripharals :-
	Except CPU remaining all the parts of computer is called as Pheripharals. 

	These devices are classified into 3 types

	Input Devices
		These devices are used to provide input to the system. 
			Keyboard
			Mouse
			Scanner
			Joystick
			LightPen	
	Output Devices
		These devices are used to provide output of the process/task.
			Monitor
			Printer
				Dot Matrix Printer - Ribbon is used to print something paper
				Inkjet Printer - Ink bottles exist inside of the printer,
						to print, bottle ink uses by the printer.
				Laser Printer -  Some kind of powder exist in cartridge, with that
					powder, print will be done.
			Plotter
	Storage Devices 
		These devices are used to store information in memory. 
				There two types of memory
						Primary 
							RAM
						Secondard
							HDD, SSD, Pendrives, External HDD, 
Other parts of computers
		Motherboard   :- This device interconects some other devices like Processor,
					RAM, HDD, Powerconnections, etc. 
		Cabinet	      :-  This device is External Box which is used to assemble Desktop
					computers.   
		PowerBox	:-  This box supplies power for the computer. 
		Graphic Card    :-  This device is used, whenever the person is developing games 
					to play games in computer, graphic card should present. 


Whenever the person is purchasing a system(laptop/desktop),
configurations has to check as per the requirements

Hardware COnfig

1.  Processor
2.  RAM
3.  HardDisk/SSD
4.  Graphic Card

Software COnfig
Operating System(windows 10/11)
Linux (Redhat/Ubuntu/Fedora)
MacOS

Software Technology :- 
	What is a software ?
		It is a set of instructions, data  or programs used to operate computers as well as
		execute specific tasks. 

		These softwares are classified into two types

				A.  System Software
				B.  Application Software

System Software :- The software which is meant for running any electronic devices. 
			Ex:-   Operating Systems

What is an Operating System:-
		It is a heart of the computer, this software communicates with all the devices of 		computer and provides an interface to work with computer. 

		An operating system:-
			a.  Communicate with Devices(provides device related softwares). 
			b.  Provides an interface to start work.
			c.  Whenever we connect any additional/external device, that device also
			need an software(device drivers) here OS will maintain that device also.

there are different types of Operating systems based on UI
		1. CUI based Operating Systems
			Character User Interface(Command Line) UI
				A.  MS-DOS(Microsoft Disk Operating System)
				B.  Unix
		2. GUI based Operating Systems
			Graphical User Interface based Operating system
				A. MS - Windows 95/98/2000/Me/XP/7/8/10/11
				B. Linux - (Redhat/Fedora/Ubuntu/...)
				C. MacOS - Specifically used for Apple Machines.

Booting :-  The process of loading operating system from disk to primary memory is called booting. 

When we switch on computer, 

1.  Checking BIOS
2.  Identifies OS
3.  Starts loading OS from disk to RAM
4.  Once OS is loaded, it prompt to us either Desktop / Login Screen. 
---------------
Application Software :- 
		These softwares are used to fullfill user requirements. 

		These are classified into two types
			a.  Packages
				These are readymade software to perform a specific task/requiment.
 				Ex:-  
					Office Tools(Word/Excel/PowerPoint)
					Accounting Softwares(Tally/...)
					Graphic Works(Photoshop/.....)
			b.  Programming Languages
				These languages are used to develop applications/softwares. 
					Ex:-  
					Basic, Cobol, Pascal, C, C++, Java, Dotnet, ....
					Databases :- 
					Dbase, Foxprow, Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, ...
					Web Based
					HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular, React, ....

Liveware Technology :-  It is technology is meant for Human Being. 
			i.e. No machine works without operating by the human. 

