Today's Agenda
---------------
Java - OOPS Concepts
---------------
What is an OOPS? 
		It is an Object Oriented Programming Structure(OOPS)

OOPS is a programming architecture/Methodology which provides security for the data. 

Basic
Cobol
Pascal
C Lang

The above specified prog lang are called procedure oriented programming languages. 

The OOPS concepts are developed to provide security for the data. 

Object
Class
Data Abstraction
Data Encapsulation
Inheritance
Polymarphisum

These concpets are implemeted in different programming languages, those prog lang are called as Object Oriented Programming Languages. 

C++, Java, DotNet Languages(C#.Net, VB.Net, VC++.net, ...), Pythons....

What is a Object?
		It is a Thing in the real world which has specific attributes and behaviour. 

		Ex:- Car is an Object
				Attributes
					Color, Model, Number, Company, Engine Capacity
					Seating Capacity, ....
				Functionalities
					Transporting
					Changing Gears
					Use Brakes

An object is not a natural item in the real world, it has to be made up with some other unit. 
in general we can say that "Blue Print"/Parent Item. 

What is a Class?
		It is an encapsulted cell which meant for defining attributes and functionalities of 		the object.

		or

		It is a user defined data type. 

As per the java, A class can be created as follows

class  <classname>
{
	data members

	member functions
}

Data Members		:-  these are the variables which holds data.
				these variables are also called as instance variables.
				these variables can be used in all the methods of the class.

Member Functions 	:-  these are the user defined functions defined within the class. 
				so that these are also called as Methods. 

				these methods are used to specify some action for the data members.
class DemoClass
{
	int x, y;
	
	void gedata()
	{
		x = 100;
		y = 200;
	}

	void putdata()
	{
		sop(x);
		sop(y);
		sop(x+y);
	}
}

Object :-   It is an Instance of the class. 
		or
	     It is a variable for user defined data type which holds set of attributes and methods.

	<ClassName>  <object> = new <ClassName>([arg]);
	
	DemoClass dc1 = new DemoClass();

Once object is created, with the help of object, we can access class members(Data Members & Member Methods)
	dc1.getdata();
	dc1.putdata();

An Object can be created within the class where the main() exist.
	or
It can also be created in another class.

Access Specifiers :- 
These are the keywords which allows to specify  how to access class members either inside or outside of the class. 

private		:-  it is used only inside the class.
public		:-  it is used inside and outside the class.

protected	:-  it is used access one class members into another specific class.

Note :-  by default every class member is a public. 
-------------------------------
Classification of Class Members :- 

As per Java, there are two types of class members

1.  Non-Static Members
2.  Static Members

Non-Static Members :- 
	these members are default members of the class which has been binded with class object.
	these are used whenever need multiple copies of data. 

Static Members :- 
	these members are binded with class, these are used whenever single copy of data is needed. 

Points reg to Static:- 

	1.  These members are created with "static" keyword
	2.  A static method can handle only static variables whereas Non-static method can handle 
		both static and non-static variables. 
	3.  Static variables can be used in all the objects of the class.
	4.  A static members cannot take any memory inside the object.
	5.  A static member can access with the help of class. 
---------------------------------------
Constructor :-
It is a special method of the class which has the same name of the class. 

purpose of the constructor is :-  to specify initial process of an object. i.e. to iniilize instance variables at the time of object creation. 

Constructor is not having any return type. 

	classname([arg])
	{
		body of the constructor
	}

Points
	1.  It calls automatically whenever object is created.
	2.  It can take parameters, for these parameters we have to pass values at the time object 		creation.
	3.  A class can have multiple constructors, here every constructor should have diff no of 		parameters.
-----------------------------------
Getter and Setter Methods:- 

These are special methods which meant for accessing class private variable outside the class. 

Getter methods are used return value from variable.
		<return type>  getVariableName()
		{
			return <variable>
		}
Setter methods are used to store value into a variable as well as validating variable input. 
		void setVariableName(<arg>)
		{
			variable = arg_variable
		}
------------------------
Note :-  
there is a keyword "this". it allows to separate instance variables and parameter variables are same name.
-------------------------------------------------------
Problem Statement :-  Quiz

Whenever we run the code the following output should come

1.  What is the capital city of India?
a.  Delhi   b. Hyderabad  c. Bangalore
Answer :a
It is correct

2.  Whos is our prime minister?
a. Rahul	b.  Modi	c. 	Karge
Answer :c
It is in-correct

Repeat this for 10 questions, once all 10 questions are answered
Show the score as follows
		No of Correct Answers / Total no of Question (6/10)

Show the correct answers for Wrongly answered questions
2.  Whos is our prime minister?  --  b(Modi) 