Today's Agenda
--------------
Computer  Fundamentals - 
	Computer Networks
	Internet, Intranet and Extranet
	Computer Networks
--------------
What is a Network regarding Computers?

An interconnection b/w two or more than two computers and other resources like printer, scanner, etc is called an Network. 

Features :- 

1. Data Sharing
2. Backup
3. Security
4. Reliablity
5. Performance

Note:-  from above all features Security and Sharing is very important feature of network. 

Network Types
	As per the Network Architecture(geographical area covered), there are 3 types of Networks
		1.  Local Area Network(LAN)
				This type of network is used within the building. 
				Here network cables are used to establish network.
					Ex:-  Any Office
		2.  Metropoliton Area Network(MAN)
				This type of network is used b/w one location to another location.
				Here network established by using Satilites
					Ex:-  TV Channels 
		3.  Wide Area Network(WAN)
				This type of network is also used b/w one location to another location
				here network established by using Internet.
					Ex:- Any offices located in different places.

There are topoligies to establish network b/w computers

What is a network topology ?
It is the configuration of n/w that includes nodes/machines and conneting lines via sender and reciever.

1. Bus Topology
	This type of n/w in which every computer and network device is connected to single cable. 
	When it has exactly two endpoints. It is also called as Linear Bus Topology. 

	Advantages
		It is very easy to setup
		it uses less cables when compare to other topologies

	Limitations
		All Communications is disrupted when bus cable breaks.
2. Star
	All the PC's in this topology are connected to a single hub throgh cable. 
	This hub stands a central node. 
3. Ring
	Here computer are connected in a circle format. 
4. Tree
	It is having a cluster center that is linked to all other nodes and creating hierarchy. 
5. Mesh
	It is a connection b/w two nodes or devices which is point -to - point. 	
6. Hybrid
	It is a combination of two or more than two topologies combining into single topology. 
-------------
What is an Internet?
		Networks of Network is called internet.
			or
		Global Network is also called as internet. 
			
		Internet is also called as Web
		Website
		Web Site  should call it as Web Application

		In Internet, every system(server or client) identified with unique id called as 
		IP Address 
		IP = Internet Protocal

		TCP / IP  :-  Transfer Control Protocal / Internet Protocal
		
		TCP :-  It allows to transmit data from server to client and vice versa. 

		Here every application is also identified with an IP Address. 

		www.google.com  = having an IP Address
		www.gmail.com = having an IP Address
		
		but here externallly we won't use ip address, use always registered web urls. 
				http://190.123.45.9

		For Every task, there is a protocal (it is a rule to perform a task) to complete that
		task. 

		http  :-  hyper text transfer protocal
		https :- http s - secure
				both protocal uses are to load pages

		smtp :-  Simple Mailer Transfor Protocal  - uses for sending mail
		ftp :-   File Transfor Protocal -  for attachments of the file to mail

		What is a browser?
			It is a protocal based application which meant for accessing web apps from 			internet.

		To work with Web?
			Internet Connection
			Browser
			Relavent Web Url's

			Known protocals
				TCP / IP
				Http/Https
				SMTP , FTP

Intranet  and Extranet :- 
An intranet is a private network that is contained within an enterprize/orgnisation. 
It consist of interlinked LAN and uses WAN for network connectivity. 

Extranet :- 
It uses internet protocals to link intranet over the public internet. It is a part of company's intranet that is extended to user s outside the company such as Suppliers, Venders, Customers and so on.

Ex:-  Online Payments(Payment Gateway)

It is used for
	1.  Exchange large volumes of data
	2.  Collaborate with partners(Payment Gateways)
	3.  Share Product Catalogs

Computer Security :- 

It is the protection of computer systems and information from unauthorized use, which allows a user to use the computer while keeping it safe from threats. 


CIA Triad in Security 

C :-  Confidentiality
	Ensuring that data is unavaiable to unauthorized parties, usually  using encryption, ID's 
	and it's relatd password's. 
I :-  Integrity
	Preventing unauthorized parties from altering information and systems. 
A :-  Availability
	Ensuring that authroized persons have an access to information when they need it.
-------------------------------
