Phase 2 Content
----------------
Servlets
JDBC
Hibernate
JSP
----------------
Today's Agenda
---------------
Basics of Web Server
Introductions to Servlets
---------------
What is a Web Page?

What is a Website/Web Application?

What kind of information present in Web Page?

Any information can be presented in a web page for particular entity. 
	That information can be classified into 4 types
			1.  Textual Info
			2.  Images
			3.  Audio
			4.  Video
To Create the web pages, we required following languages and technologies

1.  Markup Languages
	HTML, DHTML, XML, XMAL, XHTML, ...
2.  Scripting Languages
	JavaScript, jQuery, ....
3.  Technologies
	Java - Servlets, JSP, ...
	Dotnet - ASP.Net, ASP.Net MVC, ....
	Php - Php
	Python - Django
4.  Desinging Tools
	using these tools web page can be designed. 
	Dream Viewer
	Photoshop
--------------------
Java Developer
	1. Markup Languages - HTML, DHTML(CSS), ....
	2. Scripting Languages - JavaScript, jQuery, ...
	3. Servlet, JSP, 

DotNet Developer
	1. Markup Languages - HTML, DHTML(CSS), ....
	2. Scripting Languages - JavaScript, jQuery, ...
	3. ASP.Net, Asp.Net MVC

Php Developer
	1. Markup Languages - HTML, DHTML(CSS), ....
	2. Scripting Languages - JavaScript, jQuery, ...
	3. Php

Python Developer
	1. Markup Languages - HTML, DHTML(CSS), ....
	2. Scripting Languages - JavaScript, jQuery, ...
	3. Python basics, Django
-------------------------
What is a Web Server?
	It is a software where it allows send  a request from client to the server and provides 	response from the server to cleint. 
	
	It simpli says that how to execute a web page from server. 

	As per java there are different web servers exist

		1. Apache Tomcat
		2. Web Logic
		3. Glassfish

	Once installed / Configured any one of Web Server, it is ready to execute web pages.

	Web Server having an IP Address/Server Name. 
		if web server is exist in local system
			http://127.0.0.1  = Local System IP Address
			http://localhost  = Local System Server Name
	Every Server also needed an Port Number
			by default port number is 8080.  if required we can change it. 
			http://127.0.0.1:8080/
			http://localhost:8080/

Steps to Configure Tomcat Web Server to Eclipse

1.  Download ZIP file of tomcat server and extract it into specific folder. 
2.  Open Eclipse, Click on "Servers" Tab in bottom section
3.  Click on Link what it is showing over there, then follow the steps. 
4.  To execute Particular page, right click on web page - Run on Server - follow the steps. 


Note :- To change port number, doubleclick on server - change port number whereever it exist 8080

---------------
What is a Servlet?
	It is a web technology which meant for creating server side web applications. 

difference b/w static web page and dynamic web page

Static Web Page :-  the page content will not be changed. 
Dynamic Web Page :-  the page content will be changed according to the request and response. 

Before Servlets, for creating dynamic web pages, CGI Script - Common Gateway Interface Script. 

---

=>Servlet is an API that provides many interfaces and classes including documentation.
=>Servlet is an interface that must be implemented for creating any Servlet.
=>Servlet is a class that extends the capabilities of the servers and responds to the incoming 	requests. It can respond to any requests.
=>Servlet is a web component that is deployed on the server to create a dynamic web page.

The javax.servlet and javax.servlet.http packages represent interfaces and classes for servlet api.

The javax.servlet package contains many interfaces and classes that are used by the servlet or web container. These are not specific to any protocol.

The javax.servlet.http package contains interfaces and classes that are responsible for http requests only.

What is a Protocal?
A protocal is a rule to perform a task on web.

http :-  Hyper Text Transfer Protocal
		By using this protocal data can be trasfered from server to client and vice versa.
https:-  It is as same as http with security feature. 
ftp :-    File Transfer Protocal
smtp :-   Simple Mailer Transfer Protocal

A browser is a multi protocalled based application to interact with web pages.
---
Servlet interface provides common behavior to all the servlets.
Servlet interface defines methods that all servlets must implement.

There are 5 methods in Servlet interface. The init, service and destroy are the life cycle methods of servlet. These are invoked by the web container.

public void init(ServletConfig config)	
initializes the servlet. It is the life cycle method of servlet and invoked by the web container only once.

public void service(ServletRequest request,ServletResponse response)
		provides response for the incoming request. It is invoked at each request by the web 			container.
			It will be executed again and again whenever request is made. 
public void destroy()	
		is invoked only once and indicates that servlet is being destroyed.
public ServletConfig getServletConfig()	
			returns the object of ServletConfig.
public String getServletInfo()	
		returns information about servlet such as writer, copyright, version etc. 
------
GenericServlet class implements Servlet, ServletConfig and Serializable interfaces. It provides the implementation of all the methods of these interfaces except the service method.

GenericServlet class can handle any type of request so it is protocol-independent.
---
The HttpServlet class extends the GenericServlet class and implements Serializable interface. It provides http specific methods such as doGet, doPost, doHead, doTrace etc.
-------------
How to create servlet in web application:- 

1.  Create a Dynamic Web Application using Eclipse
2.  Create a Servlet as follows
	right click on src/main/java - new - servlet
		follow the next steps
3.  Add servlet-api.jar from tomcat server. 
---------------

As per Servlets Concept :- 
	Designing -  use HTML Pages
	Functionality - use Servlet Pages
-------------
How to execute servlet with html page?

1.  Create an HTML and Servlet Pages. 
2.  Define action for the Servlet Page. 
3.  In Html Page, use form tag as follows
	<form  method = "POST" action = "servlet name">
		<input type="submit"  value="some text" />
	</form>

What are the POST and GET:- 

POST AND GET are the request types for the server. Along these two there are other two request types are existed, those are PUT and DELETE. 

POST    :-   To send something to the server. 
GET	:-   To get something from the server.
PUT 	:-   To modify something into the server.
DELETE	:-   To delete something into the server. 

submit :- button is allows to submiting the web page to the server. 
action :- attribute is meant for executing a page. it might be servlet/html page/js page/...
----
How to send data from html page to servlet page?
1.  Create an HTML and Servlet Pages. 
2.  In Html Page, use form tag as follows
	<form  method = "POST" action = "servlet name">
		<all input tools>
		<input type="submit"  value="some text" />
	</form>
3.   Html page tool values can be access into servlet by following method
		String variable = request.getParameters("toolname")
4.  Execute html page. 


